AMIDIMINDER-PROFILE(5)        File Formats Manual       AMIDIMINDER-PROFILE(5)



NAME
       amidiminder-profile - Format for MIDI connection rules


DESCRIPTION
       Profiles  describe  a list of rules for making connections between ALSA
       sequencer MIDI ports. Users can create a profile rules file to describe
       how they want their MIDI environment connected, then use amidiminder(1)
       to load it into the system. Connections will be made according  to  the
       rules, and if some of the devices or software are not yet on-line, con‐
       nections for those ports will be made when they later come on-line.

       The amidiminder-daemon(8) will then continue to  ensure  these  connec‐
       tions  are made if devices are unplugged and re-plugged, or even if the
       whole system restarts.


CONCEPTS
   ALSA Sequencer structure
       Each device or application that wants to  have  MIDI  ports,  registers
       with  ALSA  as a "client". This client has a name, chosen by the device
       or application, and a number, assigned by ALSA.  As  the  number  isn't
       predictable, profiles only refer to client names.

       Each  client  can  have  one  or  more ports, and these ports can be in
       ports, supplying MIDI data, out ports (receiving MIDI)  data,  or  they
       can  be  both.   Hardware  devices typically have just one port that is
       both in and out.  Applications often have separate  in  ports  and  out
       ports.

       Like clients, the ports also have both a name supplied by the device or
       application, and a number supplied by ALSA. Here, the numbers are  sta‐
       ble,  and  predictable,  and so in profiles rules can refer to ports by
       either name or number.

       Connections are unidirectional, from one in port to one out port.


   Rules
       Rules specify ports that should be connected. Rules can  have  wildcard
       specifications,  so  they  match multiple ports and cause more than one
       connection to be made.

       Rules can also be disallow rules, specifying ports that should  not  be
       connected.  This can be useful to restrict a wildcard rule to not apply
       in some circumstances. Disallow rules can also be  generated  when  the
       amidiminder-daemon(8)  observes  the  user  expressly disconnecting two
       ports that the profile rules connected. Such a disallow rule acts as an
       override.

       A  profile  consists of a sequence of rules. The order matters, and the
       last rule matching a pair of ports governs what happens.   amidiminder-
       daemon(8) also maintains a list of observed rules. These logically fol‐
       low the profile rules.


EXAMPLE
       This profile connects some hardware MIDI devices to a piece of software
       called "bicycle" (a MIDI looper).

           bicycle:control <-- nanoKEY2
           bicycle:control <-- Erae Touch
              # These connect my controllers to the software. Sometimes I
              # use the nanoKEY2 keyboard, sometimes I use the Erae surface
              # to play notes. These rules connect both, so which ever is
              # plugged in gets connected.

           bicycle:control <-> Launchpad Pro:MIDI
              # Connects the Launchpad to the software, and vice-versa.
              # This allows buttons on the Launchpad to control the
              # software, and the software to control the lights on the
              # Launchpad.
              #
              # The Launchpad presents three MIDI ports, and we want the one
              # that is just plain MIDI from the unit.

           bicycle:synth --> MicroMonsta
           bicycle:synth --> Hydrasynth
           bicycle:synth --> Midihub:1
              # Connects the music output of the software to my synths. The
              # last line connects to a MIDI interface, which has four
              # distinct MIDI outputs, numbered from 0. Here we connect to
              # the second one.

           Faderfox --> Midihub:3
              # Lastly, connect a hardware control surface with knobs to the
              # fourth output of the MIDI interface. This is just hardware
              # to hardware connection, used to adjust the parameters of my
              # reverb unit, connected to the MIDI interface.

       Placing the above text in a file, say bicycle-profile.rules, these con‐
       nections could be quickly established by running this command:

           & amidiminder load bicycle-profile.rules


SYNTAX
   Profile structure
       Profiles are text files with one rule per line.  Comments begin with  a
       number  sign (#), and continue to the end of the line. Empty lines (in‐
       cluding comment only lines) are ignored.  Leading  and  trailing  white
       space around a rule is also ignored.

   Clients
       Clients are specified in one of three ways:

                                       Syntax          Example

              (a) by partial name      client-name     Monsta
              (b) by full exact name   "client-name"   "Launchpad Pro"
                                       'client-name'   'Launchpad Pro'
              (c) by wildcard          *               *

       (a)    A  client  can  be specified by any part of its name. Spaces are
              allowed. Since client names can be long, any  substring  can  be
              given.  For  example, Monsta will match a client named MicroMon‐
              sta 2.

              Be aware that some client specifications will match multiple de‐
              vices, should your system have them. For example, Launchpad will
              match both a Launchpad Pro and a Launchpad Pro MK3. This may, or
              may not, be exactly what you want.

       (b)    A client can be specified by its full name, by putting the spec‐
              ification in double quotes. So "Launchpad Pro" will only match a
              Launchpad Pro, but not a Launchpad Pro MK3.

       (c)    This specification matches all clients.


   Ports
       Ports are specified in one five ways:

                                  Syntax               Example

              (a) by default      client               Digitakt
              (b) by name         client:port-name     Launch Pad:DAW
              (c) by exact name   client:"port-name"   Launch Pad:"Live Port"
                                  client:'port-name'   Launch Pad:'Live Port'
              (d) by number       client:number        Launch Pad:1
              (e) by wildcard     client:*             Launch Pad:*

       (a)    This  is  the  most common way to specify a port, with with just
              the client name.  In this case in matches the first  in  or  out
              port  the  client has, depending on the direction the connection
              is being made.

       (b)    A port can be specified by any part of it's name,  in  the  same
              way as clients can.

       (c)    A  port can be specified by its exact, full name, by placing the
              name in quotes.

       (d)    Ports can be specified by number. Port numbers start at 0.

       (e)    This is a wildcard specification, and matches all ports  of  the
              client.

       There are two special forms for a port specification. These specify all
       ports on all clients that are tagged (by the device or software  creat‐
       ing the ports) in a certain way.

                                          Syntax

              (f) all hardware ports      .hw
              (g) all application ports   .app

       Note  that there is no client specification, nor a colon (:) with these
       specifications.


   Connection rules
       A connection rule consists of a port, a connector,  and  another  port.
       There are three types of connector:

       portA --> portB
              Specifies a connection from portA to portB.

       portA <-- portB
              Specifies  a  connection  in  the other direction, from portB to
              portA

       portA <-> portB
              This is just a short hand for specifying both rules  above.  As‐
              suming  both ports are in and out ports, the this will cause two
              connections to be made, one in each direction.

       Note: In the forms above, any number of hyphens (-) are accepted in the
       arrow.


   Disallow rules
       A  disallow  rule  has exactly the same form as a connection rule, only
       the connector has an x added in the arrow:
              portA -x-> portB
              portA <-x- portB
              portA <-x-> portB

       These rules will keep a connection from being  made  when  prior  rules
       (including wildcard rules) would have made one.


SEE ALSO
       amidiminder(1), amidiminder-daemon(8),



                                                        AMIDIMINDER-PROFILE(5)
