AMIDIMINDER(1)              General Commands Manual             AMIDIMINDER(1)



NAME
       amidiview - MIDI connection tool

SYNOPSIS
       amidiview view
       amidiview list [options]
       amidiview connect [options]
       amidiview disconnect [options]


DESCRIPTION
       amidiview is a tool for easily viewing and managing ALSA Sequencer MIDI
       connections.  The main tool is interactive and provides a textual  user
       interface  for viewing all ports in the system, and the connections be‐
       tween them. The interface provides easy commands for making and  break‐
       ing connections.

       The  additional commands offer command line interface to the same func‐
       tionality.


COMMANDS
       view   Interactive view of ports and connections in the system. Connec‐
              tions can be made and removed using the keyboard.

              This  is  the default operation of amidiview if no subcommand is
              specified.

              The terminal must support xterm style control  sequences,  which
              pretty much all do these days.

       list [-p] [-c] [--clients] [--plain|--details] [-a] [-n]
              Output a textual list of ports, connections, and/or clients.

              Options

              -p, --ports
                   Output a list of ports

              -c, --connections
                   Output a list of connections

              --clients
                   Output a list of clients

                   If  none  of  the above three options are given, then ports
                   and connections will be output.

              --plain
                   Output only the names, one per line. Useful for scripts

              --details
                   Include type and capability details for ports and clients.

              -a, --all
                   Include all ALSA  Sequencer  clients  and  ports.  Normally
                   clients  and  ports that are for system level use are omit‐
                   ted.

              -n, --numeric
                   Sort items by ALSA id number, rather than by name.

       connect sender destination

       disconnect sender destination
              Make or removes a connections between two ports.

              The ports are specified in one of several ways:

                           Syntax             Example

                     (a)   client             Digitakt
                     (b)   client:port-name   Launch Pad:DAW
                     (c)   client:*           Launch Pad:*
                           *                  *
                     (d)   id:id              128:0

       (a)    This is the most common way to specify a port,  with  with  just
              the  client  name.   In  this case in matches the client's first
              sender or destination port as needed. The client name can be any
              substring  of  the  full  client name. Put the name in quotes to
              match only the whole client name.

       (b)    The name of the port can be specified, useful for  devices  that
              have  multiple ports. Again, any substring of the port name will
              work. Use quotes for exact matches.

       (c)    Wildcards will match all ports on a client, or all ports on  all
              clients. Using this form can make or break multiple connections.

       (d)    Alsa  ID  numbers  can be used, but if so, must be used for both
              client and port.

              These matching rules are the same as used  by  amidiminder  pro‐
              files. See amidiminder-profile(5)fordetails.


SEE ALSO
       amidiminder-profile(5)



                                                                AMIDIMINDER(1)
