AMIDIMINDER(1)              General Commands Manual             AMIDIMINDER(1)



NAME
       midiminder - Utility to manage MIDI device connections

SYNOPSIS
       midiminder load file
       midiminder save file
       midiminder reset [--keep] [--hard]

       midiminder check file
       midiminder status


DESCRIPTION
       The  midiminder daemon maintains a set of desired connections (the pro‐
       file) between ALSA sequencer MIDI ports. See  midiminder-daemon(8)  for
       more information.

       A  profile  is a set of rules for connecting MIDI ports between devices
       and/or software. Once a profile is loaded, the daemon will  make  those
       connections  automatically  as the devices are connected to the system,
       and software is started.

       Profiles are written in a  simple  rules  syntax.  See  midiminder-pro‐
       file(5) for the rules format.

       The  daemon  also  observes  connections made by the user (via commands
       such as aconnect(1) ) and from within other software. These are  remem‐
       bered  as a set of observed rules, and these connections are also main‐
       tained.

       These user commands let you manage the profile of connections  used  by
       the daemon.


COMMANDS
   Control commands
       load file
              The  file is first checked for rule syntax, and if it fails, the
              command exits, making no changes.

              If it passes the check, The profile is loaded from the file. Ob‐
              served  rules  are dropped. All existing connections are discon‐
              nected. Then finally, ports are  reconnected  according  to  the
              rules in the newly loaded profile.

              A file name of - (hyphen-minus) loads from the standard input.

       save file
              Write  the  current  profile,  plus  all the observed connection
              rules, to the file.

              A file name of - (hyphen-minus) writes to the standard output.

       reset [--keep] [--hard]
              Reloads the current profile: Observed rules  are  dropped.   All
              existing  connections  are disconnected. Then finally, ports are
              reconnected according to the rules in the current profile.

              Options

              --keep
                   Keep the observed rules, don't drop them.

              --hard
                   Resync all connections and ports from the ALSA Seq  system.
                   This  should  never  be necessary, but misbehaving software
                   might cause the daemon to be out of sync with  reality.  If
                   you find you need this, please contact the author.

   Utility commands
       check file
              Check  that  the  file parses as a valid profile. Errors are re‐
              ported by line.

              A file name of - (hyphen-minus) checks from the standard input.

              The exit status of the command is 0 if the file is a valid  pro‐
              file, and 1 if there are any syntax errors.

       status Connects  to  the daemon, retrieves some status information, and
              outputs it.  This is a good way to check that the daemon  is  up
              and running.


ENVIRONMENT
       RUNTIME_DIRECTORY
              The  path  to the directory that has the UNIX-domain socket used
              to communicate between the control commands and the running dae‐
              mon.

              Note:  If the system configuration is changed such that the dae‐
              mon is launched with a non-default value for this  variable,  it
              must also be set the same way when using any of the control com‐
              mands.


FILES
       /run/midiminder
              The default location of  the  runtime  directory.  If  the  RUN‐
              TIME_DIRECTORY environment variable is not set, this is the path
              used.


       control.socket
              This UNIX-domain socket is located in the runtime directory, and
              is used to communicate between the control commands and the dae‐
              mon.


SEE ALSO
       midiminder-profile(5), midiminder-daemon(8)



                                                                AMIDIMINDER(1)
