AMIDIMINDER(1)              General Commands Manual             AMIDIMINDER(1)



NAME
       midiwala - MIDI connection tool

SYNOPSIS
       midiwala view
       midiwala list [options]
       midiwala connect sender destination
       midiwala disconnect sender destination
       midiwala remove-all


DESCRIPTION
       midiwala  is a tool for easily viewing and managing ALSA Sequencer MIDI
       connections.  The main tool is interactive and provides a textual  user
       interface  for viewing all ports in the system, and the connections be‐
       tween them. The interface provides easy commands for making and  break‐
       ing connections.

       The  additional commands offer command line interface to the same func‐
       tionality.


COMMANDS
       view   Interactive view of ports and connections in the system. Connec‐
              tions can be made and removed using the keyboard.

              This  is  the  default operation of midiwala if no subcommand is
              specified.

              The terminal must support xterm style control  sequences,  which
              pretty much all do these days.

       list [-p] [-c] [--clients] [--plain|--details] [-a] [-n]
              Output a textual list of ports, connections, and/or clients.

              Options

              -p, --ports
                   Output a list of ports

              -c, --connections
                   Output a list of connections

              --clients
                   Output a list of clients

                   If  none  of  the above three options are given, then ports
                   and connections will be output.

              --plain
                   Output only the names, one per line. Useful for scripts

              --details
                   Include type and capability details for ports and clients.

              -a, --all
                   Include all ALSA  Sequencer  clients  and  ports.  Normally
                   clients  and  ports that are for system level use are omit‐
                   ted.

              -n, --numeric
                   Sort items by ALSA id number, rather than by name.

              --long-port-names
                   Display the unshortened port names.

                   ALSA port names have a nasty habit of including the  client
                   name,  sometimes twice, as a prefix to the port name.  This
                   just makes ports hard to read, and provides no benefit,  as
                   port  names  are  always scoped to a given client. midiwala
                   normally shortens port names to the  useful  portion.  This
                   option displays the full name.

       connect sender destination

       disconnect sender destination
              Make or removes a connections between two ports.

              The ports are specified in one of several ways:

                           Syntax             Example

                     (a)   client             Digitakt
                     (b)   client:port-name   Launch Pad:DAW
                     (c)   client:*           Launch Pad:*
                           *                  *
                     (d)   id:id              128:0

              (a)  This  is  the  most common way to specify a port, with with
              just the client name. In this case in matches the client's first
              sender or destination port as needed. The client name can be any
              substring of the full client name. Put the  name  in  quotes  to
              match only the whole client name.

              (b)  The  name  of the port can be specified, useful for devices
              that have multiple ports. Again, any substring of the port  name
              will work. Use quotes for exact matches.

              (c)  Wildcards will match all ports on a client, or all ports on
              all clients.  Using this form can make or break multiple connec‐
              tions.

              (d)  ALSA  ID  numbers  can be used, but if so, must be used for
              both client and port.

              These matching rules are the same as  used  by  midiminder  pro‐
              files. See midiminder-profile(5) for details.

       remove-all
              Removes all connections in the system.

       Note:  The  flags  -l,  -c, -d, and -x can be used as aliases for list,
              connect, disconnect, and remove-all  respectively.  These  match
              the usage of aconnect(1).


SEE ALSO
       midiminder-profile(5)



                                                                AMIDIMINDER(1)
